RCCL: Add Memory Manager to the documentation (#7741)
ROCm/rocm-systems: projects/rccl/docs/how-to/rccl-usage-tips.rst

   export RCCL_ENABLE_CONTEXT_TRACKING=1

.. _suspend-resume:

Suspending and resuming a communicator
======================================

A long-lived application can hold several RCCL communicators that are only used
during specific phases. While a communicator is idle, the GPU memory it holds
for channel buffers, transport FIFOs, and similar resources stays reserved and
is unavailable to the rest of the application. RCCL provides an API to release

> those resources while a communicator is idle and to reacquire them later,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
those resources while a communicator is idle and to reacquire them later
```

without destroying and recreating the communicator.

The relevant functions, declared in ``rccl.h``, are described in full in
:ref:`communicator-suspend-resume`:

- ``ncclCommSuspend`` releases the resources selected by its ``flags``
  argument. Pass ``NCCL_SUSPEND_MEM`` to release dynamic GPU memory

>   allocations. After this call the communicator cannot be used until it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allocations. After this call, the communicator can't be used until it's
```

  resumed.
- ``ncclCommResume`` reacquires every resource that the matching
  ``ncclCommSuspend`` call released, after which the communicator can run
  collectives again.
- ``ncclCommMemStats`` reports per-communicator memory counters, such as the
  amount of GPU memory that can be suspended and whether the communicator is
  currently suspended.

Requirements
------------

Releasing the physical backing of a suspended communicator while keeping its
GPU virtual address space requires cuMem virtual memory management (VMM)
support. VMM is available only when all of the following conditions are met:

- ``NCCL_CUMEM_ENABLE`` is set to ``1`` (or to ``-2`` to enable VMM
  automatically when the platform supports it). It is ``0`` (disabled) by
  default.

> - The HIP/ROCm runtime provides the cuMem VMM APIs: ROCm 7.12 or later, or a

Reviewer 2: Is 7.12 correct?

Author: Yes, the primary supported path is ROCm/HIP 7.12+ (HIP_VERSION >= 71260540). We also support a narrow ROCm 7.0.2.x backport

  ROCm 7.0.x build that includes the cuMem backport.
- The Linux kernel is version 6.8 or later.
- The GPU and driver report VMM support.

Without VMM support, ``ncclCommSuspend`` and ``ncclCommResume`` still succeed,

> but they cannot release the physical GPU memory, so the operation is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but they can't release the physical GPU memory, so the operation is
```

effectively a no-op.

Example
-------

The following example suspends an idle communicator, queries how much GPU
memory was freed, and later resumes it:

.. code-block:: cpp

   // comm is an initialized ncclComm_t that is currently idle.
   uint64_t suspendable = 0, suspended = 0;

>    NCCLCHECK(ncclCommMemStats(comm, ncclStatGpuMemSuspend, &suspendable));

Reviewer 2: The example queries ncclStatGpuMemSuspend (bytes suspendable) before suspending, but doesn't show what to do with the value or check it before proceeding. A reader might wonder: should they verify suspendable > 0 before calling ncclCommSuspend? A one-line comment would help:
  // suspendable > 0 means there is GPU memory that will be released.

Author: Good point. Added a comment: suspendable is bytes of suspendable GPU memory; the query is informational and Suspend does not require suspendable > 0.
